Let us carry on and try to write a text file.
I just created a path on a file that's called debug.log and a
BufferedWriter using the same kind of pattern as the reader.
And we're just going to try to write Hello world in that file.
What is going to happen if I run this code?
So let me just add something telling us that we did something,
that we are done with the execution of this class.
Let me run this code. Done has been displayed,
and odds are you are not going to see anything in your Files folder.
The reason is that Eclipse not refreshing its interface by default.
So you can just click on this Files folder,
hit the F5 key just to refresh it, and now the
debug.log file is going to be displayed.
What do we have in this file?
Well, it turns out that we do not have anything.
And if I check WritingFiles, I can see that I tried to write something in it,
but it turns out that they did not appear in this debug.log file.
If you see that, it means that most probably, you haven't closed your file.
So I'm going to close it.
Run this code again.
Check the debug log.
And now I have my Hello world sentence in my file.
In fact,
this close method is calling a flush method itself, and
this is the flush method that is going to transfer what
has been written to the disk.
Now if you do not throw the exception from your main method, which is good
practice, and call the try with resources pattern on it.
Let us get rid of that. Write this catch clause IOException ioe and just call
ioe printStackTrace. Now the close method from our writer is automatically
called when exiting this try with resource block. So if I run this code and check debug.log, Hello world is still written in it.